## Table of Contents

- [A template quirk](#A\template\quirk)
- [A template quirk](#A\template\quirk)

```bash\powershell
dotnet new: creates a net .NET project
webapi, mvc: Builds a .NET project and all of it dependencies

```




- `dotnet new`: Creates a new .NET project. You can specify the type of project (`console`, `classlib`, `webapi`, `mvc`, etc.). For example, `dotnet new console` will create a new console application.
- `dotnet build`: Builds a .NET project and all of its dependencies. The `-c` or `--configuration` option can be used to specify the build configuration (`Debug` or `Release`).
- `dotnet run`: Builds and runs the .NET project. It is typically used during the development process to run the application for testing or debugging purposes.
- `dotnet test`: Runs unit tests in a .NET project using a test framework such as `MSTest`, `NUnit`, or `xUnit`.
- `dotnet publish`: Packs the application and its dependencies into a folder for deployment to a hosting system. The `-r` or `--runtime` option can be used to specify the target runtime.
- `dotnet add package`: Adds a NuGet package reference to the project file. You specify the package by name. For example, `dotnet add package Newtonsoft.Json`.
- `dotnet remove package`: Removes a NuGet package reference from the project file. Similar to the `add package` command, you specify the package to remove by name.
- `dotnet restore`: Restores the dependencies and tools of a project. This command is implicitly run when you run `dotnet new`, `dotnet build`, `dotnet run`, `dotnet test`, `dotnet publish`, and `dotnet pack`.
- `dotnet clean`: Cleans the output of a project. This command is typically used before you build the project again, as it deletes all the previously compiled files, ensuring that you start from a clean state.
- `dotnet --info`: Displays detailed information about the installed .NET environment, including installed versions and all runtime environments.

### A template quirk
### A template quirk

We will use the Console template for running all code in this module; however, beginning with .NET 6, the template for creating new C# console applications (`dotnet new console`) generates the following template:

Code: csharp

```csharp
// Refer to https://aka.ms/new-console-template for more information
Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
```

This output utilises recent C# features that reduce the amount of code required for a straightforward program. This approach is suitable for small-scale projects operating entirely without a specific structure. However, for our purposes, this project style won't be suitable. Instead, it's recommended to use the provided template for projects.

Code: csharp

```csharp
class Program
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        // ...
    }
```