## Table of Contents

    - [What Are Classes?](#What\Are\Classes?)
      - [What are Constructors?](#What\are\Constructors?)
        - [Example Code](#Example\Code)
    - [Slide 3: Constructor Parameters](#Slide\3:\Constructor\Parameters)
      - [What are Constructor Parameters?](#What\are\Constructor\Parameters?)
        - [Example Code](#Example\Code)
    - [Slide 6: Class Destructor](#Slide\6:\Class\Destructor)
      - [What are Destructors?](#What\are\Destructors?)
        - [Example Code](#Example\Code)
    - [Slide 7: Class Destructor Example](#Slide\7:\Class\Destructor\Example)
      - [Example Code](#Example\Code)
  - [Questions](#Questions)
    - [Can variables/functions defined within a class be accessed from outside of the class?](#Can\variables/functions\defined\within\a\class\be\accessed\from\outside\of\the\class?)


### What Are Classes?
Classes are special member functions of a classthat are automatically called when an object of the class is created


#### What are Constructors?

In C++, constructors are special member functions of a class that are automatically called when an object of the class is created. They usually initialize the object's attributes.

##### Example Code

cppCopy code

`class MyClass { public:     MyClass() {         // Constructor body         std::cout << "Object is created" << std::endl;     } }`

---

### Slide 3: Constructor Parameters

#### What are Constructor Parameters?

Constructors can also have parameters, allowing you to initialize an object's attributes with specific values at the time of its creation.

##### Example Code

cppCopy code
```

`class MyClass { public:     int x;     MyClass(int value) : x(value) {         // Initialize x with value     } }`



class Car { public:     std::string brand;     std::string model;     int year;     Car(std::string x, std::string y, int z) : brand(x), model(y), year(z) {     } }`

```


### Slide 6: Class Destructor

#### What are Destructors?

Destructors are special member functions that are called when an object goes out of scope or is explicitly deleted. They're used for resource management, such as releasing memory or closing files.

##### Example Code

cppCopy 
```cpp
class MyClass { public:     
			   ~MyClass() {         // Destructor body         std::cout << "Object is destroyed" << std::endl;     } 
			   };
```

### Slide 7: Class Destructor Example

#### Example Code

cppCopy code



## Questions

### Can variables/functions defined within a class be accessed from outside of the class?

In C++, the accessibility of class members (variables, functions, etc.) depends on their access specifiers:

- **public**: Can be accessed from outside the class.
- **private**: Cannot be accessed from outside the class.
- **protected**: Can be accessed by derived classes but not from outside the class.