In Windows, every process has a token that has information about the account that is running it. These tokens are not considered secure resources, as they are just locations within memory that could be brute-forced by users that cannot read memory. To utilize the token, the `SeImpersonate` privilege is needed. It is only given to administrative accounts, and in most cases, can be removed during system hardening. An example of using this token would be [CreateProcessWithTokenW](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winbase/nf-winbase-createprocesswithtokenw).

Legit programs may use another process's token to escalate from administrator to Local System, which has additional privileges. Processes generally do this by making a call to the WinLogon process to get a SYSTEM token, then executing itself with that token placing it within the SYSTEM space. This is often abused in the "Potato Style" privescs - where a service account can `SeImpersonate`, but not obtain  full SYSTEM level privileges. Essentially, the Potato attack tricks a process running as SYSTEM to connect to their process, which hands over the token to be used.

We will often run into this privilege after gaining remote code execution via an application that runs in the context of a service account (for example, uploading a web shell to an ASP.NET web application, achieving remote code execution through a Jenkins installation, or by executing commands through MSSQL queries). Whenever we gain access in this way, we should immediately check for this privilege as its presence often offers a quick and easy route to elevated privileges.
